History of me and programming
-----------------------------

It all started when my dad, who is a toolmaker, brought home one of the
programshe wrote for the CNC milling machine at his work. It was a program to
make some polygon with rounded corners, printed out together with a picture of
the result. I was very interested in understanding how that was done, but my
dad said it was too complicated for a 7 year old child. He was right, but since
that day I wanted to know how to teach a machine how to do things.

The next contact with programming was when my cousin had a programming course
at scool and showed me what print, input and if can do in a QBasic interpreter.
I was 14 years old and no longer too young to understand what was going on. I
wanted to try what I had seen, but my dad didn't want me to break his new 486 -
he already had felt too much pain trying his own adjustments to autoexec.bat,
config.sys and BIOS configs. A few days later I got my own 386 and the freedom
to break it as often and hard as I want.

I spend many hours every day learning QBasic from the help pages of the
interpreter. After a year there were only few commands that I did not know, I
had written hundreds of little programs and was still full of ideas and
motivated. Digging deeper and deeper I was reaching the limits of what I was
allowed to do by the interpreter. So my wish for my next birthday was a book to
learn assembly language. For weeks I anticipated to break the limits of QBasic
and do everything I wanted. My parents found no assembly book and gave me a
Java book.

I got this 'Learn Java 2 in 21 days' book and - maybe because I was young - I
worked through two thirds of the book in this 21 days. I understood the syntax
and how to run Java, but I did not really get the idea of object oriented
programming. I still was very comfortable in QBasic, so I gave Java a rest.

A little later I got a few page long Assembler tutorial from somewhere. I think
finding content in the internet was still not a thing, so I rather might have
gotten it from some friend on a floppy. Printed out with the smallest readable
font it filled two or three pages - which were my precious pages for several
months. I learned the most common commands and wrote some programs. Most of the
time nasty programs that use the potential of low-level access to system
functionality.

It might have been roughly at that time that I had my first computer science
class in school. The only things that I remember about this is that we learned
Pascal, I got best grades because I new all the concepts and the schools hardly
found enough pupils and teachers to fill a course. There was at least one year
where the computer science class was together with another school.

My math classes inspired some of my programs I wrote at home, still in QBasic.
I visualized intersecting 3D planes without ever having heared of vectors, drew
a lines' reflection on a parable and stuff like this. This saved me from bad
grades at least in math because I nearly never made my homework since seventh
grade.

To be continued ...
